# War
Repository for CS304
   This program was created for a project in my CS231 class. It is meant to simulate the card game War. The programming language used for this assignment is C++. War is a one on one card game, user vs computer. The goal of the game is to be the first player to win all 52 cards. At the start of the game, the deck is divided evenly, with each player receiving 26 cards. The ranking of the cards, from highest to lowest, is as follows: A, K, Q, J, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2. At the start of each round both players turn up one card at the same time. The player with the higher card takes both cards and moves them to the bottom of their stack. If the cards are the same rank the players must go to war! Each player turns up two more cards, one "face down"(hidden) and one "face up"(revealed). The player with the higher card takes both piles(six cards). If the turned-up cards are again the same rank, the process is repeated, with each player turning up two more cards in the same way. The player with the higher card takes all 10 cards, and so on. The game is over when one player has won all 52 cards. The program contains 6 files: card.cpp, card.h, deck.cpp, deck.h, war.cpp, and test.cpp. 
    The war.cpp class is used to implement the game logic for War. Here a win is defined by the player getting 52 cards using the constant definition "WINNING_COUNT=52". The players stack is also created and set to start out as empty in lines 37-45. Then 26 cards are dealt to each player randomly, resulting in two shuffled stacks using a for loop like so: "for(int i = 0; i < 26; ++i)". After those cards are dealt the program draws a card and adds it to the each players stack. Finally I added in the greeting and instructions for the game. The player is prompted for a input by getting asked "Enter (D) to deal or (Q) to quit". If the player chooses Q then the loop breaks and the game is over. If D is chosen, a new round will start and cards will be dealt. The cards are shown and added to the deck of the player with the higher card. The implementation for a war situation is created next using a while loop and continues until the loop is broken by a high card. Separate loops are created for the player_war_stack and the computer_war_stack. The class then determines a winner of the game and presents a final count in lines 287-309. In order for all of the cards to be compared quantitatively, I had to convert the card's rank to a corresponding numeric value. For example, 'J' returns 11, 'Q' returns 12, and so on. This is done using a switch. The deck.cpp and deck.h are used to build the deck and the card.cpp and card.h are used to specify the different suites in the deck and pair them with every rank.
    This project was completed using Dev C++. I completed several of the main functions, but the outline of the code was provided to me by my professor, Jay Snellen. The project appears to be in full working order and as such, no additional changes are required for the game.
